# Hybrid Supply and Use Table (HSUT) Model

This project led to the creation of physical input-output transactions matrices for the US, years 2010-2019 at summary level. For 2012, the transactions matrix is available in detail level as well. Visualizations as chord diagrams have also been created for positive, unidirectional flows.

Three folders are included for the programming files. A separate folder includes the output files that may be useful to researchers. The programming files are divided into [Detail](Detail/), [Summary](Summary/), and [Visualizations](Visualizations/). The detail folder contains the code for creating the IO tables at detail level. The summary folder contains the code for creating the IO tables at summary level. The visualization code contains the code for making the chord diagrams.

The file [`Input_File_Inventory.md`](Input_File_Inventory.md) contains information about the excel files used as inputs. The [`Output_Excel_File_Inventory.md`](Output_Excel_File_Inventory.md) contains information about the excel outputs generated by the python codes.

## [Summary](Summary/)

To run the summary level programs, the order is:

1. Step_1_a_HS_Price_vector_calc_summary.py – Calculate the price vector from trade data
2. Step_1_b_Other_Price_Calc.py – calculate prices from production data for primary extractive sectors
3. Step_2_Price_vector_building_SUTs.py – build price vectors to be used for the physical SUT and IO production
4. Step_3_Price_vector_to_Use.py – build supply and use tables in physical units
5. Step_4_Calculate_SMIOT.py – build monetary IO tables
6. Step_5_Calculate_SPIOT.py – build physical IO tables

## [Detail](Detail/)

To run the detail level programs, the order is:

1. Comtrade_Import_Step_1.py – Calculates import price vector from Comtrade data
2. Comtrade_Export_Step_1.py – Calculates export price vector from Comtrade data
3. Step_2_Price_vector_building.py – builds price vector for supply, use and IO tables based on trade data
4. Step_3_Price_vector_to_PIOT_alt.py  - makes final price vector based on trade data and production data (note – file for prices based on production data calculated in summary section); creates detailed physical supply, use and IO tables

## [Visualizations](Visualizations/)

The visualizations can be run in any order.

